To estimate the posterior map,
the occupancy grid will uniformly partition
the two-dimensional space in a finite number of grid cells.
Each of these grid cells will hold
the miner random value that corresponds to the location it covers.
Based on the measurements data,
this grid space will be filled with zeros and ones.
If the laser range finder sensor detects an obstacle,
the cell will be considered as occupied and its value will be one.
And for free spaces,
the cell will be considered as unoccupied and its value will be zero.
Now, to find out the number of maps that can be generated out of grid cells,
let's pick the first two cells and work out their combinations.
The first combination is a map with two free spaces.
Proceeding, the second combination is a map with
one free space on the left side and one obstacle on the right side.
Next, by flipping the second map,
we get the third combination.
And finally, the fourth combination is a map with two obstacles.
Thus, the total number of maps that can be
formed out of these two grid cells is equal to four.
To generalize, the number of maps that can be formed out of
grid cells is equal to two to the power of number of cells.
Now, imagine if you have a 2D space with tens of thousands of grid cells.
The number of maps generated will be even larger.